# Roadmap

There is no official project roadmap as I'm mostly scratching my own itch with this project and implement whatever I personally am in need of and have time for. However, here's a list of ideas that I'm considering for the future.

- **Form shortcode** - A form shortcode registered by default to enable easy inclusion of forms in pages. The forms would be defined using YAML and support submission through either a post request to, for example a Google Docs form or a handler that saves it to an excel file in the contents directory, or by email to a configurable list of recipients.
- **Podcasting** - The system has been designed with podcasting in mind, to be able to attach media resources to feed items, but as of now it's not yet implemented. Please express if you have a need for it and the feature will prioritized.
- **Admin GUI** - I already have a proof of concept admin interface package that add a REST API and is built using Vue.js. However I have no personal need of this at the moment so I'm not actively developing it.
- **Virtual Filesystem** - Adding a virtual filesystem as a middle layer to minimize filesystem calls could provide significant performance increase when performing operations such as full-text search. However, doing so would require a significant rewrite of how the Page class loads and validates content as well as for how the Search class processes the pages, especially if both modes of operation should remain supported. Using such a system would likely require a periodical scheduled scan of the content directory to look for any new or updated files and that might warrant supporting both. Personally I don't suffer from any performance issues and I can't afford to spend time on a feature that I'm not sure would be necessary, but I'd be willing to prioritize this if a need is expressed.

If you have any ideas of your own or are willing to work on any of the above, please get involved via the [issue tracker](https://github.com/soma-php/papyrus/issues).
